The Architecture
In this exercise, you will follow the path to the actual issue based on a scenario description from user tickets and monitoring information.
This is a theoretical exercise, so assumption will be required.

The application is a trading portfolio that allows users to buy and sell stocks and shares as well analyze potential stocks to buy.
The system also has an automated element that allows users to set parameters to decide whether they should buy or sell stocks that they are interested in.

Architecture diagram.
The diagram above shows the system architecture for the application, which includes two database server systems: a regular SQL server
(denoted by M for Master write server in the diagram) and 2 x R disks (replica/read-only servers).
This is relational information containing user account information and portfolio data of their stocks and shares.
The Redis cache is used to speed up data retrieval during the queries for things such as user log on and the most common symbol names
and high-profile user portfolios.

The NoSQL database server is used to gather stock market data so that it can be used for analytical and historical processing by the application.

The microservice layer is hosted on Kubernetes and the components within here perform all the actions such as:

Buying
Selling
Analysis to determine if a stock should be bought or sold
Alerting information to users to inform them about a stock and suggestions of buy, sell or stay
Verifying user authentication status
Retrieving portfolio information
Web front end
API for mobile apps, IoT devices and 3rd party vendors who use our service
Containers run on demand
Information between services is managed via Message Queues (MQ) and there is a service container that defines what service is
required based on messages on the Message Queue.

Some of the services have been written in serverless architecture (AWS Lambda functions), which are simplistic calculation tools
for the users, but less frequent and less demanding on resources.

The API gateway directs the calls from mobile, web, and IoT to the load balancer which targets the relevant microservice.
The API gateway ensures that the user has been authenticated to use the system and has a current and valid token that is passed throughout the system.
This saves all the services having to check with the authentication service to see if the request is valid.
The authentication service obtains user information from the regular database servers.

The Tickets
Ticket 1
Users have discovered that they are unable to perform analysis on their interested stocks. They are reporting that all other elements of the system are working fine.

Ticket 2
Users who have reported the initial ticket have since stated that they are able perform analysis on some of their stocks such as BA, BAA, BARC.

Ticket 3
Those reporting on ticket 1 have also noticed that if they move their time line they are able to perform analysis on stocks up to 10:00am today.

Ticket 4
There are users that are reporting that they are not able to get any analytics. These are mainly through the simple analysis routines.


Monitoring
Microservices
The monitoring system is showing that there have been some errors in the logs since 9:30 am today coming from the analytics services.
The logs have shown issues about not finding data, or simply ending as the container died.

Dashboard
There is a warning on the dashboard that shows one of the feeds is "flapping" (oscillating between OK and not).

Initial Analysis from Support
Database
The NoSQL database contains symbol data for symbols beginning with:

    A - F, N - R
This is since 9:30 am today until the current time.

Recent Releases
Checking back through the release calendar shows that there was an update to the Lambda functions last night to improve performance and reduce run time.

-------- Your Task ---------
Based on these limiting facts and with no access to the system, give your ideas of where you think the issue is and what it might be.
Organise your ideas in the priority of which you think most likely.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ticket 1:
Analysis side fail, other services working.
Kubernetes working for the other services
NoSQL failed to gather market data? ---> for certain tickers, agreed with the monitoring database
Kubernetes container not processing the inputs ?

Ticket 2:
Odd issue... ---> agreed with information available in NoSQL database.

Ticket 3:
Did the disk space fill up? ---> disagreed because there is data up till current time.
Failure of system past 10am then. Probably nothing to do with the lambda functions as well.

Ticket 4:
Simple analysis routines I'm going to assume is referring to the AWS lambda services.
If not working, means AWS lambda down or connection failed.
'Mainly through' simple analysis routines, means there is also failure in the non-simple analysis routines. ---> Corroborates ticket 1

Microservices:
Analytic services not finding data == NoSQL not sending the market data over ---> Only for certain tickers (?),
                                                                                  but working for B-tickers so this may not be true.

Since 9.30am problem started occuring, but users only detect it at 10am onwards.

Dashboard:
Feed is 'flapping', something is constantly failing and being restarted,
or perhaps it's an issue of connection error...?

Database:
Symbol data works for A-F and N-R. Until current time...
No data for G-M and S-Z.

Recent Releases:
Lambda functions updated last night to improve performance and reduce run time..... sus. Something broken here.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

Issue 1:
Lambda services are not working as intended. Release notes does not indicate whether is AWS update or our company updating 
code on our side. If the latter, means the code has broken down, not enough testing to determine whether the code has been 
working before deployment to lambda.

Issue 2:
NoSQL database is not correctly gathering data from online stock servers. Some tickers are not receiving any data, others received
data from start to current time. Unlikely to be a disk usage full issue, probably connection or some other problem.
Since this is a standalone server, would not impact kubernetes services in any other way.

Issue 3:
Kubernetes service for analytics is failing. Issue with the container running and staying up, but kubernetes itself is working fine,
because the master is restarting the service once it fails(?), causing the 'flapping' to occur.
Maybe something called 'crashloopbackoff' error. Prem just introduce this term, where the kub service constantly fails and
restarts -- "CrashLoopBackOff is a common error in Kubernetes, indicating a pod constantly crashing in an endless loop."

Not finding data is an issue that is related to the NoSQL server not being able to capture data.
However, connection problem can be ruled out because B-tickers are working for some reason.



