Introduction to Relational Databases 
Database is a structured way to store data, information is split into tables, which is further split into columns with 1 entry being for 1 row.
Some specifications are required for each column. They are: Unique/Non-uq ValueType(int,char,date,time) and whether they are Keys

To identify a particular entry, it requires unique Primary Keys (PK); this sub-divided into 3 categories. 
Natural key   = something like your national ID. It's already unique to the citizen in this country.
Compound key  = two (or more) different columns which form unique combinations.
Surrogate key = anything that is simply generated just to log the primary key. E.g. this could just be the natural numbers. (1,2,3...)

Relational refers to that each table has a 'relation' with a different table. This is in the form of Foreign Keys (FK).
This is so 1 entry in TableA can link to another entry in TableB. The FK is usually the PK of another table.

There are 3+1 different catogories for relationships: 1-1, 1-Many, Many-Many
The odd one out is that some tables link to themselves.
The example given is that a manager is an employee as well, and manages others.
So in the employee's table, his employeeID (PK) is the entry for others' managerID (FK) in a single row.


ACID Compliance
ACID acronym stands for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability
Overall this ensures the database is a robust system.

Atomicity   = A transcation must be fully executed or it will be rescinded/reverted. No partial executions allowed.

Consistency = The data must all be in the format specified by the columns. Furthermore, PKs must be unique, and FKs must refer to a valid PK.
              When deleting rows where the PK is referenced by another table as a FK, the delete order may be rejected.
              Another option is to 'Cascade Delete' which means all the related FKs are deleted as well but this is generally not good.

Isolation   = In a database used by many users, a person adding data can be interrupted by someone trying to read the data.
              Isolation means that while someone is adding data, no one can read the database until he finished his entry.
              This prevents A) Errors while adding the data, and B) The person reading the data will not get an uncompleted result.

Durability  = The data is stored in a 'durable' place, such as HDD or SSD -- the 'permanent memory' types.
              Being stored on RAM is virtual memory, once the power is turned off you risk losing all the data you have entered.
              
              
